This repository contains a set of experiments for the inference in **Nonlinear AutoRegressive Moving Average with eXogenous input (NARMAX)** through message-passing.

## Dependencies

Before running the experiments, you need to have Julia 1.6.x installed on your machine. We use the [`DrWatson.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/DrWatson.jl) package to structure our experiments such that you can reproduce them quickly. [`DrWatson.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/DrWatson.jl) has to be installed in your global Julia environment before running the experiments. You can add [`DrWatson.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/DrWatson.jl) by calling

```
(@v1.6) pkg> add DrWatson
```

or 

```
julia -e 'import Pkg; Pkg.add("DrWatson")
```

We use [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.github.com) to commit binaries (e.g. plots and images) in the repository. While it's not required, it's highly recommended to have it installed on your machine.

## Instantiating

For reproducibility, we have fixed the versions of all required packages in this project. To instantiate the project, you may use the following command in a terminal:

```
julia --project -e 'import Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

This command will install all required packages and will prepare the project environment.

## Experiments

The experiments are located in the `experiments` folder. To run Julia experiment, you may use the following command in a terminal:

```
julia experiments/synth_narmax.jl
```

It is also possible to run experiments from any IDE ([Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)), or within the `experiments` folder directly:

```
cd experiments
julia synth_narmax.jl
```

It is unnecessary to activate a project environment before running experiments since `DrWatson.jl` will do this automatically.

### Note
We used MATLAB to (1) generate the synthetic signal `datasets/verification/realizations` and (2) to run Iterative Least Squares estimator `datasets/verification/ils_results`. The new dataset can be generated by running `matlab/run_experiments_NARMAX.m`. The new datasets and reference results will appear in `matlab/realizations` and `matlab/ils_results` folders respectively. You can manually move those folders into `datasets/verification/`.

## Cached results

Some experiments may take a lot of time to complete. Optionally you can download the `dump.zip` archive from the GitHub releases section, containing precomputed JLD2 files for the synthetic experiments. By default, the experiments pipeline searches for cached results in the `dump` folder and doesn't recompute them if the corresponding cache exists. It is possible to reload the precomputed results and analyze them in REPL or Visual Studio Code without running all experiments from scratch.

To force the experiments pipeline to recompute results, you may either remove the corresponding cached results from the `dump` folder or modify experiments to use the `force = true` flag in the `produce_or_load` method:

```
result, _ = produce_or_load(..., force = true) do params
    run_experiment(params)
end
```

## Project structure

- `datasets/realizations` - datasets of synthetic data used for experiments
- `dump` - (optional), cached results of the experiments in JLD2 files
- `experiments` - code/scripts for experiments
- `development` - Jupyter notebooks used during development stage 
- `experiments/results` - plots + results of ILS estimator
- `src` - reused code, project module, model definitions, and utilities
